MC38472 remote storage (#8254)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.4/config-guide/remote-storage/config-remote-storage.md

---
group: configuration-guide
title: Configure remote storage
functional_areas:
  - Configuration
  - System
  - Setup
---

> The Remote Storage module provides the option to store media files and schedule imports/exports in a persistent, remote storage container using a storage service, such as AWS S3 or Azure Blob Storage. By default, Magento stores media files in the same filesystem that contains the application. This is not efficient for complex, multi-server configurations, which can result in degraded performance when sharing resources. With this module, you can store media files in the `pub/media` directory and import/export files in the `var` directory in the remote object storage and take advantage of server-side image resizing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Remote Storage module provides the option to store media files and schedule imports/exports in a persistent, remote storage container using a storage service, such as AWS S3 or Azure Blob Storage. By default, Magento stores media files in the same filesystem that contains the application. This is inefficient for complex, multi-server configurations, and can result in degraded performance when sharing resources. With the Remote Storage module, you can store media files in the `pub/media` directory and import/export files in the `var` directory of the remote object storage to take advantage of server-side image resizing.
```

![schema image]

## Remote storage options

You can configure remote storage using the `remote-storage` option with the [`setup` CLI command][setup]. The `remote-storage` option uses the following syntax:

```text
--remote-storage-<parameter-name>="<parameter-value>"
```

The `parameter-name` refers to the specific remote storage parameter name. The following table lists the parameters available for configuring remote storage:

| Command line Parameter | Parameter name | Description | Default value |
|--- |--- |--- |--- |
| `remote-storage-driver` | driver | Adapter name<br>Possible values:<br>**file**: Disables remote storage and uses the local filesystem<br>**aws-s3**: Use the [Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)][AWS S3] | none |
| `remote-storage-bucket` | bucket | Object storage or container name | none |
| `remote-storage-prefix` | prefix | Optional prefix (location inside of object storage) | empty |
| `remote-storage-region` | region | Region name | none |
| `remote-storage-key` | access key | Optional access key | empty |
| `remote-storage-secret` | secret key | Optional secret key | empty |

### Storage adapters

> The default storage location is the local filesystem. A _storage adapter_ enables you to connect to a storage service and store your files anywhere. Magento supports configuring the following storage services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default storage location is in the local filesystem. A _storage adapter_ enables you to connect to a storage service and store your files anywhere. Magento supports configuring the following storage services:
```
